1081 Smallest Subsequence of Distinct Characters 
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/smallest-subsequence-of-distinct-characters/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- [Monotonic queue](https://medium.com/algorithms-and-leetcode/monotonic-queue-explained-with-leetcode-problems-7db7c530c1d6)
  
#### Idea
The problem is asking to find the lexicographically smallest subsequence with each letter shown in the given string occurring *exactly once*. Hence, the requirements are as below:

1. Every character shown in the given string must occur in the result **exactly once**.
2. The occurrence of each character **must be consistent with their order in the given string**. 
3. The characters should be lexicographically ordered **at the best effort**.

Intuitively, to sort the characters, we keep the result as a sorted array of characters wherein characters in front are smaller lexicographically than others at back. However, simply sorting the characters may violate the second constraint, since some larger character may appear in front to smaller ones, and it may only appear once. Therefore, it is important to keep track of the occurrences of every character in the original string, and decide when to put a character into the result array. 

As a solution, we can use a **monotonic increasing queue** wherein characters in front are lexicographically smaller than others at back. As just explained, we need to keep track of the occurrences of each character in the given string, i.e., their indices. In general, **we traverse the given string and put characters into the monotonic increasing queue**, which will be the result of the problem. Specifically, we check if the current character is in the queue during the traversal - if it does, we ignore it; otherwise, we will put it into the queue. Respecting the characteristics of the monotonic increasing queue, inserting a smaller element into the queue will make certain elements in the queue **violating the monotonicity**, and therefore force them to be discarded. However, w.r.t the second constraint above, we cannot discard all of them if any of them will not appear again in the rest of the string. Hence, **we need to determine if the character to be discarded is at its last occurrence in the string**. In detail, we check the following:

1. If the current character is lexicographically smaller than the last one in the queue
2. If the last character in the queue will recur in the rest of the string
3. If the recurrence of the last character will be after the current position (if not, the character will still violate the monotonicity and be discarded later, leading to missing character).

We do the checking and discard for every character greater than the current one in the queue, and after that the character can be enqueued to the right position. 



#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(N)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 36 ms
- Memory usage: 13.8 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def smallestSubsequence(self, text: str) -> str:
        from collections import deque
        
        queues = {}
        for i, c in enumerate(text):
            queues.setdefault(c, deque()).append(i)
        
        q = deque()
        
        for c in text:
            if c in q:
                queues[c].popleft()
            else:
                while q and c < q[-1] and len(queues[q[-1]]) > 1 and queues[q[-1]][-1] > queues[c][0]:
                    queues[q.pop()].popleft()
                q.append(c)
        return ''.join(q)
```