152 Maximum Product Subarray
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-product-subarray/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Dynamic programming
- [Kadane's algorithm](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/largest-sum-contiguous-subarray/)
  
#### Idea
This is a variant of **Kadane's algorithm** for solving largest sum contiguous subarray, which stops early when finding the sum of a subarray is negative. The difference of the maximum product is that the negative product should not be discarded - instead, the negative product with the largest absolute value may result the maximum by multiplying with another negative number. Hence, the algorithm should keep track of all the possibilities all way along to the end. 

There are three possibilities for every number in the array traversal - 1) the number by itself, 2) the number multiplying with the maximum product ending and 3) that with the minimum. The maximum is likely a positive number, while the minimum may be negative. We keep tracking the maximum and minimum products ending at the current index by comparing these three possible solutions, and then compare-and-replace the maximum to the global maximum. 

A little bit more rationale behind the three possibilities: the number by itself can be the maximum if the previous maximum is 0 and the minimum is negative; the case that the number is minimum by itself is obvious. The previous maximum can still be the maximum if both the current number and itself are positive, while the previous minimum can replace it if it is a large negative number and the current number is also negative. The opposite of all these cases makes sense for the minimum product ending at each position. 

#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(N)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 60 ms
- Memory usage: 14.2 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def maxProduct(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        if len(nums) == 1:
            return nums[0]
        max_so_far = max_here = min_here = nums[0]
        for i in range(1, len(nums)):
            m, n = max_here * nums[i], min_here * nums[i]
            max_here = max(m, n, nums[i])
            min_here = min(m, n, nums[i])
            max_so_far = max(max_so_far, max_here)
        
        return max_so_far
```