19 Remove Nth Node From End of List
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-nth-node-from-end-of-list/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Linked list
- Slow and fast pointers 
  
#### Idea
The challenge of this problem is to remove the node in one pass. A two-pass solution is trivial - we can get the size of the list in the first pass and count and remove the target node in the second pass. Using O(N) space is also trivial - we can store the indices of nodes in an array in one pass and remove the target directly using the auxiliary array. 

The trick to solve the problem using constant space in one pass is to use slow and fast pointers - the fast pointer is *n* nodes ahead the slow one, and we traverse the linked list using these two pointers simultaneously. Once the fast pointer reaching the end, the slow one stops at the target node, i.e., the *n*th node from the end of the list. To remove the target node, we also need to maintain the precursor of the slow pointer. There is a special case in which the head of the linked list needs to be removed. In this case, since the fast pointer starts earlier to keep the *n* distance from the slow one and already reaches the end before the slow one starts, the precursor of the slow pointer will be null and the algorithm should return the next node of the head.

#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(1)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 24 ms
- Memory usage: 13.2 MB

#### Code
```python
# Definition for singly-linked list.
# class ListNode:
#     def __init__(self, x):
#         self.val = x
#         self.next = None

class Solution:
    def removeNthFromEnd(self, head: ListNode, n: int) -> ListNode:
        if not n or not head:
            return head
        
        slow = fast = head
        while n:
            fast = fast.next
            n -= 1
        pre = None
        while fast:
            pre = slow
            slow = slow.next
            fast = fast.next
        if pre:
            pre.next = slow.next
        return head if pre else head.next
```