227 Basic Calculator II 
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/basic-calculator-ii/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Math

#### Idea
The challenge of this problem is how to handle multiplications and divisions, since they take the precedence over additions and subtractions. The solution is similar to [#282](282.md), in which we keep track of both previous and current operands to handle the precedence. For example, given an expression `4 + 2 * 2 * 2`, we first process `4 + 2` since we evaluate the expression from left to right. In this case, we evaluate the expression to get the result `res = 6` and note `2` as the previous operand for the next operation, i.e., `pre = 2`. Moving to `4 + 2 * 2`, we realize that the multiplication should occur in prior to the addition, therefore we need to reverse the previous operation, i.e. subtract the previous operand from the current result. So we do `res - pre + pre * 2 = 6 - 2 + 2 * 2 = 4 + 2 * 2`, and get `res = 8` and `pre = 2 * 2 = 4`. Lastly, we proceed to `4 + 2 * 2 * 2`, and similarly, we handle the multiplication as done in the last step. The way to handle division is identical with the multiplication, and in this way we can get the correct result. 

One thing to note is that **we need to keep track of the opposite of a number if the previous operation is subtraction**. For example, given `4 - 2 * 2`, when evaluating `4 - 2`, we need to note `pre = -2` rather than `2`, since what we really want is `2 + 2 - 2 * 2 = 4 - 2 * 2` when moving to the next operation. This is consistent with the solution in [#282](282.md).

Lastly, a pitfall in Python is that the floor division (`//`) will return the wrong result if the result is negative, since it always takes the next smaller integer of the float-point result, but the problem expects us to simply remove the decimal. For instance, `-3//2 = -2` since the float-point result is `-1.5` and the floor division takes the next smaller integer, which is `-2`. However, the problem expects `-1` by simply wiping out the decimals. Hence, to evaluate the division, we should do `int(a/b)` instead of `a//b`.


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(N)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 100 ms
- Memory usage: 14.8 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def calculate(self, s: str) -> int:
        def calc(a, op, b):
            if op == '+':
                return a + b
            if op == '-':
                return a - b
            if op == '*':
                return a * b
            return int(a/b)
        
        res = 0
        pre, cur, op = 0, 0, '+'
        s += '.'
        for c in s:
            if c == ' ':
                continue
            if c.isdigit():
                cur = cur * 10 + int(c)
            else:
                if op == '+' or op == '-':
                    res = calc(res, op, cur)
                    if op == '-':
                        cur = -cur
                elif op == '*' or op == '/':
                    cur = calc(pre, op, cur)
                    res = res - pre + cur
                op, pre, cur = c, cur, 0
        return res
```