282 Expression Add Operators
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/expression-add-operators/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:red">Hard</span>

#### Keywords
- Backtracking
- Math
  
#### Idea
The problem is a typical partition problem mixed with the math expression evaluation. The partition part of the problem can be tackled with **backtracking**. The math expression evaluation requires certain mastery of string manipulation and understanding of [how a basic calculator works](227.md). 

There are four branches of the recursion:

1. A number with multiple digits - in this case, multiple consecutive digits in the given string consist a number without any operation symbols added in between. The previous operand `pre` remains in this case. 
2. Addition - adds the next operand to the total if the next operation is not multiplication. In this case, the current operand `cur` becomes `pre` and `cur` is reset to 0. **Note:** the first operation is always addition, since the first operand will always be added to the final result anyhow. 
3. Subtraction - subtracts the next operand from the total if next operation is not multiplication. In this case, the opposite of the current operand, i.e., `-cur`, becomes the `pre` and `cur` is reset to 0. 
4. Multiplication - takes precedence over additions and subtractions. The presence of multiplication is why we keep track of the previous operand - since the expression is evaluated from left to right, we cannot know the next operations ahead and prioritize multiplications if any. Alternatively, we can reverse the previous operation and perform multiplication between the current and previous operands before the previous operation. So that we can realize the prioritization on the fly with O(1) space. Note that the product of the operands will become the `pre`, since the step always ends up with an addition or subtraction, which has a lower priority than the multiplication. 

Once reaching the end of the expression, we check if the final result matches the target. Notably, we need to check if there is any leftover by checking if `cur == 0` - it is possible that we keep growing an operand to the end of the expression before using it in the evaluation, in which case the result expression should be invalid even the current result matches the target, since the result is incomplete in this case. If the final result matches the target and there is no leftover, we add the expression into the result set. 

#### Complexity
- Runtime: O($N\times4^N$)
- Space: O(N)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 812 ms
- Memory usage: 13.9 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def addOperators(self, num: str, target: int) -> List[str]:
        
        res = []
        
        def recurse(i, pre, cur, val, eq):
            if i == len(num):
                if val == target and cur == 0:
                    res.append(''.join(map(str, eq[1:])))
                return
            cur = cur * 10 + int(num[i])
            i += 1
            if cur > 0:
                recurse(i, pre, cur, val, eq)
            
            eq += ['+', cur]
            recurse(i, cur, 0, val + cur, eq)
            eq.pop()
            eq.pop()
            
            if not eq:
                return
            
            eq += ['-', cur]
            recurse(i, -cur, 0, val - cur, eq)
            eq.pop()
            eq.pop()
            
            eq += ['*', cur]
            cur *= pre 
            recurse(i, cur, 0, val - pre + cur, eq)
            eq.pop()
            eq.pop()
            
        recurse(0, 0, 0, 0, [])
        return res
```