307 Range Sum Query - Mutable
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/reconstruct-itinerary/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- [Segment tree](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/segment-tree-efficient-implementation/)
- [Fenwick tree (Binary indexed tree)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-indexed-tree-or-fenwick-tree-2/)
- Bitwise operations
  
#### Idea
An intuitive solution is to use **segment tree**, in which non-leaf nodes store partial sum of elements in the input array, and both interval query and update can be updated in O(logN) time. Similarly, the problem can be also solved by using **Fenwick tree (binary indexed tree)**, which takes O(logN) time for query and update prefix sum at specific positions in an array. 

The segment tree is constructed using an array, taking additional O(N) space to store the partial sums of elements in the array, i.e. the entire tree is 2N in length where N is the length of the input array. The elements in the input array are stored in the second half of the tree, while their partial sums (parents) are calculated and stored in the first half. The first element in the tree is the root of the tree and left unused (with value 0) intentionally. The relationships between the tree nodes are identified by their indices:

1. For any given node at index `i`, its left and right children are located at `2i` and `2i + 1`, respectively 
2. On the other hand, for any given node at index `i`, its parent is located at `i//2`.

Following these rules, we can come up the algorithm for updating and querying against the tree. To update an element at `i` in the tree, the algorithm updates the value of the leaf stored in the second half of the tree, i.e. updating the value at `N + i` wherein `N` is the length of the input array. Then it propagates the update to the upper levels by updating the ancestors of the leaf. Since this is a binary tree, its depth will be `O(logN)` and thus it takes `O(logN)` to update all the affected nodes in the tree. To query the sum of elements in a specific range, we need to locate all the involved partial sums in the tree and sum them up. But very soon we realize that we may add up certain elements redundantly if simply adding up the values of all the involved nodes, since the value of a parent already includes the values of its children. Hence, we need to decide which nodes to be included for calculating the sum. On the left side, if the index `i` is odd, it means current node is the right child of its parent, and the algorithm needs to include it but not its parent. On the right side, if current node is the right child, *this node will be excluded since the intervals in the segment tree are **right-exclusive***. In this case, only its left sibling needs to be included but not its parent. If neither condition is met, both children at the current level need to be included, and the algorithm simply ignores the nodes at the current level but only includes their parent. 

The alternative is to use Fenwick tree, which also takes O(logN) for both update and range sum. Similar to segment tree, Fenwick tree also stores partial sum of values in the input array in the tree nodes, but does not store the original values. The tree is also constructed using an `N+1` array, wherein the first element is left unused (with value 0) intentionally. By design, Fenwick tree does not need to store the original values in the input array in order to perform the update operations. But the premise is that the update operations only update the value difference (i.e. `new_value - old_value`), which is not the case in this problem - here the update operations update the original value in the input array. Hence, to solve this problem, the Fenwick tree need additional O(N) space to hold the input array in order to calculate the difference when performing the update operations. 

The main idea of Fenwick tree is to index values in the input array by **the last set bit of their indices** and store their partial sum in the corresponding nodes in the tree. For instance, to query the sum of values before 11 (`1011`), we only need to add up the values of tree nodes at 11 (`1011`), 10 (`1010`) and 8 (`1000`), which are the partial sum of values at 0-7, 8-9 and 10, respectively. Conversely, when constructing the tree, every value in the input array is added to the corresponding tree node(s) by **keeping adding the last set bit of its index to the index (i.e. `i += i & (-i)`) until the index reaching the array size**.

To update an element in the array, we first need to get difference between the new and old values in order to update the tree, since Fenwick tree cannot perform updates with absolute values. With the value difference, we update all the affected nodes in the tree. First of all, since the tree is 1-indexed, we need to add 1 to the index in the parameter. Then we **add the difference to tree node** and **add the last set bit of current index to the index** to move to the next node. This operation takes O(logN) time. 

To query the range sum, we actually query two prefix sums of the left and right boundaries of the given range and subtract the left from the right, since Fenwick tree only supports prefix sum by design. Just like the segment tree, ranges in Fenwick tree are also **right-exclusive**. However, since the problem requires the inclusion of both ends of the given range, we need to increment the right boundary by 1 in order to include it in the sum. The process of calculating the prefix sum is as described in the example above - the algorithm keep finding the set bit in the index, add the value of the corresponding tree node to the sum and unset the bit to move forward until all the set bits are cleared. This operation also takes O(logN) time.


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N) for construction, O(logN) for both query and update
- Space: O(N)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 92 ms
- Memory usage: 16.7 MB

#### Code
##### Segment tree
```python
class NumArray:

    def __init__(self, nums: List[int]):
        self.__tree = self._build_tree(nums)

    def update(self, i: int, val: int) -> None:
        tree = self.__tree 
        n = len(tree)//2
        tree[i + n] = val
        p = i + n
        while p > 1:
            tree[p >> 1] = tree[p] + tree[p ^ 1]
            p >>= 1

    def sumRange(self, i: int, j: int) -> int:
        tree = self.__tree
        n = len(tree)//2
        res = 0
        i += n
        j += n + 1
        while i < j:
            if i & 1 > 0:
                res += tree[i]
                i += 1
            if j & 1 > 0:
                j -= 1
                res += tree[j]
            i >>= 1
            j >>= 1
        return res
        
    def _build_tree(self, nums):
        n = len(nums)
        tree = [0] * (n * 2)
        for i in range(n):
            tree[n + i] = nums[i]
        for i in range(n - 1, 0, -1):
            tree[i] = tree[i << 1] + tree[i << 1 | 1]
        return tree
```

##### Fenwick tree
```python
class NumArray:

    def __init__(self, nums):
        self.__nums = list(nums)
        self.__tree = self._build_tree(nums)

    def update(self, i, val):
        tree, nums = self.__tree, self.__nums
        n = len(tree) - 1
    
        diff = val - nums[i]
        nums[i] = val
        
        i += 1
    
        while i <= n:
            tree[i] += diff
            i += i & (-i)

    def sumRange(self, i, j):
        tree = self.__tree
        
        def prefix_sum(idx):
            res = 0
            while idx > 0:
                res += tree[idx]
                idx -= idx & (-idx)
            return res
        
        return prefix_sum(j + 1) - prefix_sum(i)
        
    def _build_tree(self, nums):
        n = len(nums)
        tree = [0] * (n + 1)
        for i, num in enumerate(nums):
            j = i + 1
            while j <= n:
                tree[j] += num
                j += j & (-j)
        return tree
```