33 Search in Rotated Sorted Array    
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-in-rotated-sorted-array/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- [Binary search](../categories/binary_search.md)

#### Idea
Although the given sorted array has been rotated, the key observation is that **either subarray divided in the middle from the given array must be still ordered**. For example, given `[2,4,5,6,7,0,1]`, the array can be divided in the middle into `[2,4,5,6]` and `[7,0,1]`, in which case the lower subarray is ordered. Keep doing the division and we will always find the subarray where the order is retained and we can still apply binary search. Hence, in addition to use binary search to narrow down the search area, **we need to check if the current subarray is ordered and take steps accordingly**. 

First of all, we still borrow the classic binary search to lay the groundwork, defining the lower and upper bounds and finding the `mid` to divide the array. Instead of 3 cases, we need to consider 5 for this problem:

1. When the number at `mid` is equal to the target, we have found the target in the array and return its index immediately. 
2. When **the upper subarray is ordered** and **the target exists in there**, we replace the lower bound with `mid + 1`, since upper subarray is sorted and the target is greater than the number at `mid`.
3. When **the target does not exist in the upper subarray** and **the upper subarray is ordered**, the target must exist in the other subarray. So we replace the upper bound with `mid` to narrow down the search area to the lower subarray. **Note:** we must ensure the upper subarray is ordered in order to guarantee the target does not exist in the the subarray, since we cannot determine if the target exists by comparing the target to the numbers at the boundaries if the subarray is not sorted. This conclusion can also be applied to the lower subarray. 
4. Likewise, when **the lower subarray is ordered** and **the target exists in there**, we replace the upper bound with `mid`, since the target is less than the number at the `mid`.
5. Otherwise, we replace the lower bound with `mid + 1`, since the target must exist in the other subarray. 
 


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(logN)
- Space: O(1)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 36 ms
- Memory usage: 13.2 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def search(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
        lo, hi = 0, len(nums)
        while lo < hi:
            mid = (lo + hi)//2
            if nums[mid] == target:
                return mid
            if nums[mid] < target <= nums[hi - 1]:
                lo = mid + 1
            elif nums[mid] <= nums[hi - 1]:
                hi = mid
            elif nums[lo] <= target < nums[mid]:
                hi = mid
            else:
                lo = mid + 1
        return -1
```