343 Integer Break
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/integer-break)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- [Greedy](../categories/greedy.md)
- [Math](../categories/math.md)

#### Idea
The detailed explanation can be found [here](https://www.quora.com/Math-question-You-are-allowed-to-take-as-many-positive-whole-numbers-as-you-want-that-add-up-to-20-and-then-multiply-them-together-What-is-the-biggest-possible-result-you-can-get). 

There are two key points to this problem:

**1. Any number greater than 3 can be decomposed into a number of 3s and 2s**.
**2. The decomposed numbers are preferably small, and as close to each other as possible in order to maximize the product.**

To further explain the second point, we can take a concrete example of 17. 17 can be decomposed into, for example, 15 and 2, and their product is 30. In this example, the decomposition is highly skewed, and obviously the product is far less than the maximum. If reducing the skewness by decomposing it into 8 and 9, we get the product of 72, which is more than a double of 30. We can do even better by further decomposing 8 and 9 into 4, 4, 3 and 3 instead, and resulting 144, which doubles the previous product again. The example demonstrates that we want the composing numbers to be **small** and **less skewed in value**. 

So how small should the value be? Apparently we do not want a lot of 1s, since multiplying with 1 does not gain anything in the product. How about 2? or 3? or 4? or even larger? Taking a look at 2 and 3, we find that the product of their decomposed numbers is always less than themselves. However, for those larger than 3, we can always find a further decomposition whose product is larger than itself. **Therefore, we can call 2 and 3 as *atomic* numbers, which are the building blocks of any other numbers.**

It is apparent that we prefer more 3s than 2s in the decomposition, since more 3s results a greater product. On the other hand, we need to avoid 1, which adds nothing to the result. Therefore, in the solution, we get as many 3s as possible from the given number and multiply their product with the remainder if any. However, the remainder can be 1, so we compromise the optimal solution a bit by "returning" a 3 to the remainder to make it a 4, and then decomposing the 4 into two 2s. 

Although the final solution takes O(1) time, the core idea is basically a greedy algorithm, which takes O(N) time if we solve it iteratively. 

#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(1)
- Space: O(1)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 36 ms
- Memory usage: 13.2 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def integerBreak(self, n: int) -> int:
        if n == 2:
            return 1
        if n == 3:
            return 2
        exp, mod = n//3, n%3
        if mod == 0:
            return 3 ** exp
        if mod == 1:
            return 3 ** (exp - 1) * 4
        return 3 ** exp * 2
```