424 Longest Repeating Character Replacement
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-repeating-character-replacement/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Sliding window
  
#### Idea
We can use sliding window to solve this problem. We need to keep track of the frequency of each letter in the string. Obviously, we **only replace less frequent letters with the most frequent ones**, since this way we can get the longest string with the repeated character, which is the **most frequent one**. 

Specifically, we maintain a pair of pointers to identify the start and end of the window. We also maintain the frequency of the most frequent character, since the window size will be **frequency of the most frequent character + k**. In addition, we also use a hash table to keep track of frequency of **characters in the window**, so that once the window sliding and the frequency of characters changing, we can still find the greatest frequency and therefore the window size. Finally, we compare and replace the global variable for the max size of the window during the window slide. 

The algorithm takes two pointers (starting and ending pointers of the window) to traverse the string twice, plus the time for finding the largest frequency when the starting pointer moving. Given only 26 uppercase letters may possibly occur in the string, time and space for finding the largest frequency will be constant. Therefore, the time and space complexity of this solution is O(N) and O(1), respectively. 


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(1)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 212 ms
- Memory usage: 13 MB

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def characterReplacement(self, s: str, k: int) -> int:
        i, j, most_freq, max_len = 0, 0, 0, 0
        freq = {}
        
        while j < len(s):
            ec = s[j]
            freq[ec] = freq.get(ec, 0) + 1
            most_freq = max(most_freq, freq[ec])
            j += 1
            while j - i > most_freq + k:
                sc = s[i]
                freq[sc] -= 1
                most_freq = max(freq.values())
                i += 1
            max_len = max(max_len, j - i)
            
        return max_len
```