464 Can I Win
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/predict-the-winner/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Depth-first search
- Minimax
- Memoization
  
#### Idea
This problem resembles a minimax problem in which we need to determine if a player can win over the other. At the core, we use DFS to enumerate all the possible number-picking strategies, and find the winning one for the first player if any. Notably, the problem consists of subproblems with smaller running totals, e.g., the problem with the `desiredTotal = 11` consists of subproblems with `desiredTotal = 10` and `desiredTotal = 9`, and so on. Herein, we can memoize and reuse the results of the subproblems for the larger ones, in order to eliminate duplicate computations. 

The other challenge is how to serialize the number pool. Obviously, we can use an array of numbers as the pool, but it is space-consuming to snapshot the pool states for different search branches. It is also inefficient to convert between hashable and non-hashable sequence data structures to serialize and deserialize the states. As an alternative, we can use bitmap to capture the states given the `maxChoosableInteger <= 20`, for which a 32-bit integer will suffice. Every position in the bitmap `i` corresponds to the i-th integer in the given range, e.g., the 5th bit corresponds to 5. We mark the unselected number as `1` otherwise `0`. 

We model the game from the perspective of the first player. Herein, the core logic is as follows: if the currently picked number is greater than the `desiredTotal`, the first player wins. Otherwise, we subtract the picked number from the `desiredTotal`, and the second player takes the turn - since the goal is to let the first player win, we need to check if the second player will lose given the new `desiredTotal` and number pool; if so, the first player wins. Here is where the minimax logic lies.

There is a corner case in which the sum of the entire number pool is less than the `desiredTotal`, in which case there is no winner, and the function should return false anyway. 


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(maxChoosableInteger * desiredTotal)
- Space: O(maxChoosableInteger * desiredTotal)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 544 ms
- Memory usage: 30.1 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def canIWin(self, maxChoosableInteger: int, desiredTotal: int) -> bool:
        if maxChoosableInteger >= desiredTotal:
            return True
        if sum(range(1, maxChoosableInteger + 1)) < desiredTotal:
            return False
        
        dp = [{}] * (desiredTotal + 1)
        
        def score(target, status):
            if status in dp[target]:
                return dp[target][status]
            for n in range(1, maxChoosableInteger + 1):
                nb = 1<<(n - 1)
                if status&nb and (n >= target or not score(target - n, status^nb)):
                    dp[target][status] = True
                    return True
            dp[target][status] = False
            return False
        
        return score(desiredTotal, (1<<maxChoosableInteger) - 1)
```