587 Erect the Fence
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/erect-the-fence/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:red">Hard</span>

#### Keywords
- Convex hull
- [Intersection of line segments](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/check-if-two-given-line-segments-intersect/)
- [Jarvis's algorithm](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/convex-hull-set-1-jarviss-algorithm-or-wrapping/)
- [Graham scan](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/convex-hull-set-2-graham-scan/)
- [Monotone chain algorithm](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/convex-hull-monotone-chain-algorithm/)

  
#### Idea
The problem is to find the convex hull from the given points. There are three known algorithms to solve the problem as listed above. But before understanding the algorithms, we need to understand the building block of these algorithms, which is the notion of [orientation of a point triplet](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/orientation-3-ordered-points/). 

Given three points `p`, `q` and `r`, we can construct two vectors in 2D, e.g., `pq` and `qr`. In a 2D coordinate system, they are represented as `(qx - px, qy - py)` and `(rx - qx, ry - qy)`, respectively. Since they are vectors, they have directions, which can be represented by their slopes to the X axis, i.e. `(qy - py)/(qx - px)` and `(ry - qy)/(rx - qx)`. By definition, we can shift the vectors so that they can intersect at a specific point. After the shift, they are just like the two hands of a clock. Now we can define the orientation of the point triplet - to `pr`, if the angle between `pq` and `qr` is astute on the right side, the orientation is **clockwise**; if the angle is obtuse on the right side, it is **counterclockwise**; otherwise, it is **co-linear**. To understand the orientation, we can think of how to move the minute hand to make it overlap with the hour hand on the clock face so that it travels the shortest distance. In this case, `pq` is the hour hand and `qr` is the minute hand. To `pq`, if the angle between `pq` and `qr` on the right side is astute, we need to move `qr` clockwise in order to travel the shortest distance to make them overlapped; similarly, if the angle is obtuse, we need to move the vector counterclockwise. The special case is that the slopes of the two vectors are equal, in which case they have the same direction. In this case, *the point in the middle (e.g., `q`) is on the vector `pr`*. 

The core idea of the Jarvis's algorithm is to **keep finding the next leftmost point on the hull among the given ones**. The first step is to find the leftmost point among all the given ones, i.e., the point with the smallest value on X axis, denoted by `p`. To find the next one, the algorithm leverages the orientation of the point triplet - the next leftmost point on the hull, denoted by `q`, must be **counterclockwise** to any other given point `r`. In other word, **given `p` and `q` and any other given point `r`, `q` is the next leftmost point if and only if any triplet `(p, q, r)` is counterclockwise**. This is obvious graphically, since if there exists any `(p, q, r)` is clockwise, it means `r` can be on the left to `q` and `q` may not be on the hull. This process continues until the next leftmost point is the starting one, by then all the key points identifying the convex hull are found. 

Different from the classic convex hull problem, the problem also has duplicate points on the hull and requires to identify them in the result. To find these duplicate points, we need to handle the special case where the point triplet is **co-linear**. After finding every leftmost point, we need to find if there is any duplicate points in between the previous and current leftmost points, and add them to the hull if any.  

#### Complexity
- Runtime
  - Jarvis's: O(MN) if there are M points forming the hull, and O($N^2$) if all are on the hull.
  - Graham scan: O(NlogN), the runtime is dominated by the sorting algorithm
  - Monotone chain: O(NlogN), same as Graham scan
- Space: O(1)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 72 ms
- Memory usage: 13.2 MB

#### Code

##### Jarvis's algorithm (O($N^2$) runtime)
```python
class Solution:
    def outerTrees(self, points: List[List[int]]) -> List[List[int]]:
        res = set()
        
        # find the leftmost point
        l, _ = min(enumerate(points), key=lambda x: x[1][0])
        
        def orientation(p, q, r):
            (px, py), (qx, qy), (rx, ry) = p, q, r
            return (qy - py) * (rx - qx) -  (qx - px) * (ry - qy)
        
        def on_segment(p, q, r):
            (px, py), (qx, qy), (rx, ry) = p, q, r
            return min(px, rx) <= qx <= max(px, rx) and min(py, ry) <= qy <= max(py, ry)

        p = l 
        while True:
            q = (p + 1)%len(points)
            # Keep finding the next leftmost point, which is counterclockwise to p 
            # with any other points
            for i, r in enumerate(points):
                if orientation(points[p], r, points[q]) < 0:
                    q = i
            # Handle the special case in which a point is on the boundary
            for i, r in enumerate(points):
                if i == p or i == q or orientation(points[p], r, points[q]) != 0:
                    continue
                if on_segment(points[p], r, points[q]):
                    res.add(tuple(r))
            res.add(tuple(points[p]))
            p = q
            if p == l:
                break
                
        return [list(p) for p in res]
```