675 Cut Off Trees for Golf Event 
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/cut-off-trees-for-golf-event/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:red">Hard</span>

#### Keywords
- Breadth-first search
- A* search
  
#### Idea
Intuitively, this is a **BFS** problem to which we iteratively find the minimum steps for each tree in the order of tree height and accumulate the steps to get the minimum total steps. Specifically, we sort the trees by height first, and use BFS to find the minimum steps for each tree. Finally, we add up the steps for cutting every tree to get the global minimum.

However, with Python, simple BFS results TLE since **it search paths blindly** - BFS goes all the four directions unless any is either blocked or previously visited; otherwise it cannot recognize early that a path is too expensive before reaching the destination and therefore stop early. Ideally, we should always **prefer paths with lower cost** in order to find the least cost path. As an improvement, we use **A\* search**.

The **A\* search** improves the simple BFS by considering the cost of every path and only searching along low cost paths. The benefit is that we can prune high-cost paths at the early stage of the search, so that the runtime complexity can be reduced significantly early. Specifically, **A\* search** uses a heap to keep track of the **locations** and the **cost to reach the destination**. Initially, we put the start point and its cost to the destination into the heap. Without the obstacles, the cost from the start point to the destination will be $C(s, d) = |d_i - s_i| + |d_j - s_j|$, which is the minimum steps to reach the destination. Likewise, for any point $p$, the cost to travel from $p$ to the destination $d$ is $C(p, d) = |d_i - p_i| + |d_j - p_j|$ without obstacles on the path. At each step, we also perform 4-direction search and only move forward along the path with the **least cost required to reach the destination**, which is the sum of **cost already paid for reaching $p$**, i.e., $C(s, p)$, and the **minimum cost needed to reach the destination from $p$**, i.e., $C(p, d)$. We only consider the path if *it is never searched before* or *its cost decreases*, in which case the reduced cost may potentially be the minimum. By this approach, we can avoid the costly paths therefore narrow down the search space at early stage. 

#### Complexity
- Runtime: O($(MN)^2$)
- Space: O(MN)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 2904 ms
- Memory usage: 14.2 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def cutOffTree(self, forest: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        from heapq import heappush, heappop
        
        if not forest or not forest[0]:
            return 0
        m, n = len(forest), len(forest[0])
        uncut = sorted([(i, j) for i in range(m) for j in range(n) if forest[i][j] > 1], 
                       key=lambda x: forest[x[0]][x[1]], reverse=True)
        
        steps, si, sj = 0, 0, 0
        while uncut:
            ti, tj = uncut.pop()
            base = abs(ti - si) + abs(tj - sj)
            heap = [(base, 0, si, sj)]
            cost = {(si, sj): base}
            visited, found = set(), False
            while heap:
                _, num, i, j = heappop(heap)
                if i == ti and j == tj:
                    found = True
                    steps += num
                    break
                for di, dj in [(1, 0), (-1, 0), (0, 1), (0, -1)]:
                    ii, jj = i + di, j + dj
                    if 0 <= ii < m and 0 <= jj < n and forest[ii][jj] > 0:
                        c = num + 1 + abs(ti - ii) + abs(tj - jj)
                        if c < cost.get((ii, jj), m * n):
                            cost[ii, jj] = c
                            heappush(heap, (c, num + 1, ii, jj))
            if not found:
                return -1
            si, sj = ti, tj
        return steps
```