795 Number of Subarrays with Bounded Maximum
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-subarrays-with-bounded-maximum/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Dynamic programming
  
#### Idea
The problem asks about the number of possible subarrays with bounded maximum. A sub-problem of it is to find the number of subarrays if the maximums of all the subarrays all fall within the bound. For instance, given an array `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`, find the number of subarrays in it. We can solve this problem with dynamic programming by finding the following pattern

```
[1] = 1 = 1
[1, 2] = 3 = 1 + 2 = DP(1) + 2
[1, 2, 3] = 6 = 1 + 2 + 3 = DP(2) + 3
[1, 2, 3, 4] = 10 = 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = DP(3) + 4
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5] = 15 = 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = DP(4) + 5
...
[1, 2, ..., n] = 1 + 2 + ... + n = DP(n - 1) + n 
```

Hence, we have the dynamic program `DP(n) = DP(n - 1) + n`. Herein we have solved the sub-problem. 

This problem evolves from the sub-problem, requiring the maximum of any subarray must fall within a given bound. Therefore, we need to prune some branches that do not satisfy the requirement from the previous solution. Specifically, we find the following pattern:

1. If the current number falls in the given bound, the problem is equivalent to the sub-problem we just solved and we use the same DP
2. If the current number is less than the lower bound, it will not change the maximum of the subarrays. Therefore, adding this number will double the number of possible subarrays, since any previously found subarray combined with the current number will result a new subarray. 
3. If the current number is larger than the upper bound, the maximum of the subarrays will change. Consequently, any subarray including this number will not satisfy the requirement. So the number of possible subarrays at this point is 0, and subarrays before and after this number cannot be combined together to form new subarrays. We can view this number as the divider of the given array, and we count the number of sub-arrays separately before and after it. 


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(1)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 80 ms
- Memory usage: 14.2 MB

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def numSubarrayBoundedMax(self, A: List[int], L: int, R: int) -> int:
        prev, cnt, dp = -1, 0, 0
        
        for i, n in enumerate(A):
            if L <= n <= R:
                dp = i - prev
            elif n > R:
                dp, prev = 0, i
            cnt += dp
            
        return cnt
```