907 Sum of Subarray Minimums
=======================
[Problem description](https://leetcode.com/problems/sum-of-subarray-minimums/)

#### Difficulty
<span style="color:#FABC60">Medium</span>

#### Keywords
- Dynamic programming
- Stack
- Space for runtime
  
#### Idea
The obvious solution is to use Breadth-first search (BFS) to exhaust all the subarrays and sum up their minimums. The minimum of subarrays can be piggybacked, so the cost for finding minimum for every subarray can be amortized to O(1). However, this solution results TLE in LeetCode since it still takes O($N^2$) time, but a linear solution is expected. 

To further reduce time complexity, an intuitive solution is to trade space for runtime. The question to be asked is whether there is anything we can reuse in the future, so that we can cache it now and retrieve it for free in the future. The crux is to identify that **a larger subarray is made of the smaller ones**. For example, subarray `[3, 1, 2]` is made of `[3, 1]` and `[2]`. The implication is that **if the minimum number is in the previous subarray, its minimum sum can be used for the larger subarray**. For example, in the same example, 1 is the minimum number of both `[3, 1, 2]` and `[3, 1]`, therefore the minimum sum of `[3, 1, 2]` is equivalent to the sum of minimum sums of `[3, 1]` and `[2]`, wherein 1 is the minimum for the first subarray and 2 for the second one. So we can summarize the dynamic programming formula as `dp[i] = dp[j] + (i - j) * A[i]`. The `j` is the position of the minimum number of the entire subarray, and `i` is the position of the currently visiting number. `dp[j]` stores the minimum sum of the first subarray, e.g. `[3, 1]` in the previous example, which is calculated previously. For the second subarray, `A[i]` is the minimum number and it will be repeatedly added to the sum for subarrays of the second subarrays, therefore we multiply it by the number of its recurrences. In implementation, we use a stack to keep track of the minimums. 


#### Complexity
- Runtime: O(N)
- Space: O(N)
  
#### LC performance
- Runtime: 152 ms
- Memory usage: 16.7 MB

#### Code

##### BFS
```python
class Solution:
    def sumSubarrayMins(self, A: List[int]) -> int:
        from collections import deque
        
        res = 0
        q = deque([(i, i, A[i]) for i in range(len(A))])
        
        while q:
            i, j, min_v = q.popleft()
            res += min_v
            j += 1
            if j == len(A):
                continue
            q += (i, j, min(min_v, A[j])),
        
        return res%(10 ** 9 + 7)
```

##### Dynamic programming + stack
```python
class Solution:
    def sumSubarrayMins(self, A: List[int]) -> int:
        stack = []
        dp = [0] * (len(A) + 1)
        
        for i, n in enumerate(A):
            while stack and A[stack[-1]] > n:
                stack.pop()
            
            j = -1
            if stack:
                j = stack[-1]
            dp[i] = dp[j] + (i - j) * n
            stack += i,
        
        return sum(dp)%(10 ** 9 + 7)
```